[MTM-56084]: Describing how to use device access token API (#1715)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/device-integration/device-integration-rest-bundle/device-access-token.md

---
weight: 80

> title: Device access tokens

Reviewer: Can the title be just 'Device certificates'. I assume this section goes under 'Device Integration using REST'

Author: Name is already taken by Certificate bundle which is common for MQTT and mTLS

layout: redirect
---

### Overview {#overview}

> Devices can authenticate against the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform via mTLS protocol using X.509 client certificates.  

Author: Done

Each tenant individually defines whom it trusts by uploading the base CA certificate.

Retrieving device access tokens from the platform with certificates does not require the tenant ID, username and password. Authentication information will be obtained from the certificates.

#### General requirements for connecting devices with certificates {#general-requirements-for-connecting-devices-with-certificates}

* The CA certificate may also be a self-signed certificate.
* Certificates must be uploaded as X.509 version 3 certificates.
* Uploaded certificates must have set `BasicConstraints:[CA:true]`.
* Devices must trust the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} server certificate.
* Certificates used by devices must contain the certificate chain that includes the uploaded CA certificate.
* Certificates used by devices must be signed either by uploaded CA certificates or by intermediate certificates signed by uploaded CA certificates.

> ### Registering devices using certificates {#registering-devices-using-certificates}

Author: OK Removing

To manage the auto registration field of uploaded certificates in the UI refer to [Managing trusted certificates](/device-management-application/managing-device-data/#managing-trusted-certificates).

**Bulk registration**

The user for the device can also be created via the standard [bulk registration](/device-management-application/registering-devices/#to-bulk-register-devices) in the Device management application.

The CSV file used in bulk registration should meet the requirements described in [Create a bulk device credentials request](https://{{< domain-c8y >}}/api/core/#operation/postBulkNewDeviceRequestCollectionResource) in the {{< openapi >}}. Moreover, it is required that the CSV file has an additional column AUTH_TYPE with value CERTIFICATES, and that the column CREDENTIALS is either not present or has an empty value.

**Single registration**

Single registration is not supported for devices which are going to use certificates for authentication.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
During device registration, the device user is created, which is necessary for device communication with the platform.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### JWT token retrieval {#jwt-token-retrieval}

> A device which is authenticated by certificates and retrieves tokens from the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform which can later be used to authenticate HTTP requests.

Author: Done

	POST /devicecontrol/deviceAccessToken
    Accept: application/json
    X-Ssl-Cert-Chain: -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- MIIDTzCCAjegAwIB...TpaISZIs= -----END CERTIFICATE

This call can be done by executing the following curl statement:

    curl -v -cert domain-cert.pem -key domain-private-key.pem \
       -H 'Accept: application/json' \

>        -H 'X-Ssl-Cert-Chain:<cert-chain>' \

Author: X-Ssl-Cert-Chain is same x-ssl-cert-chain as headers are case insensitive..

       -X POST \
       https://<{{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant domain>/devicecontrol/deviceAccessToken

> Replace `<cert-chain>` with your valid certificate chain when registering with {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Author: Done

> The same credentials used to access the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Web UI can be used to execute the REST calls.

Author: Removed

You will receive a response like that:

    HTTP/1.1 200 Success
    Content-Type: application/vnd.com.nsn.cumulocity.managedobject+json; charset=UTF-8; ver=0.9
    ...
    {
        "accessToken": "eyJhbGciOiJSUI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJktYTJmYy0x...S 04HPk3GQUd-fHyJ2oKSuetWFWpUSBPzJzl_73_3yauIlplHorlSoQ"
    }

A device token lifetime can be configured using tenant options with a category of `oauth.internal` and a key of `device-token.lifespan.seconds`.
The default value is 1 hour.
The minimum allowed value is 5 minutes.
Refer to the [Tenant API](https://{{< domain-c8y >}}/api/core/#tag/Tenant-API) in the {{< openapi >}} for more details.

> A device can fetch a new device token before the old one expires, if it requests a JWT token after half of the token's lifetime has passed.

Reviewer: May be the recommended way is to ask devices to logout which invalidates the JWT session token. Check if this can be rephrased as below:
_It is recommended that the devices invalidate the session by explicitly calling 'logout' API before closing the HTTP connection. This will avoid any misuse of JWT session tokens generated_

Reviewer: Here is the logout API 
_POST {{url}}/user/logout
Authorization: Bearer "JWT Session token"_

Author: Done

{{< c8y-admon-caution >}}

> Only devices which are registered to use cert auth can retrieve a JWT token via mTLS protocol using this endpoint. Once the certificate-based mutual authentication is successful with a valid certificate chain the device retrieves the token. The mTLS protocol can be leveraged using the device certificate and its key using this endpoint only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only devices which are registered to use certificate authentication can retrieve a JWT token via mTLS protocol using this endpoint. Once the certificate-based mutual authentication is successful with a valid certificate chain the device retrieves the token. The mTLS protocol can be leveraged using the device certificate and its key using this endpoint only.
```

> Only devices which are registered to use certificate authentication can retrieve a JWT token via mTLS protocol using this endpoint. Once the certificate-based mutual authentication is successful with a valid certificate chain the device retrieves the token. The mTLS protocol can be leveraged using the device certificate and its key using this endpoint only.

Reviewer: Rephrase: 
Only devices that are registered to use certificate authentication can retrieve a JWT session token using this endpoint. Once the device successfully authenticates using certificates (ie., by using its private key and the certificate chain), the  device retrieves the JWT session token. This mTLS over HTTP endpoint can be leveraged only over this endpoint.

---
weight: 80

> title: Device access token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Device access tokens
```

layout: redirect
---

### Overview {#overview}

Devices can authenticate against the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform using X.509 client certificates.  

> {{< product-c8y-iot >}} allows devices to connect via mTLS protocol using a X.509 certificate for authentication.

Reviewer 2: The second sentence seems not connected to the first one. Are these 2 different scenarios? Perhaps add "Moreover" at the beginning?

Author: Combine in one line

Each tenant individually defines whom it trusts by uploading the base CA certificate.

> Retrieving device access token from the platform with certificates do not need to provide the tenant ID, username and password. Authentication information will be obtained from the certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieving device access tokens from the platform with certificates does not require the tenant ID, username and password. Authentication information will be obtained from the certificates.
```

Reviewer 2: Or is it one token? Then it should be "the device access token"

To manage the auto registration field of uploaded certificates in the UI refer to [Managing trusted certificates](/device-management-application/managing-device-data/#managing-trusted-certificates).

**Bulk registration**

The user for the device can also be created via the standard [bulk registration](/device-management-application/registering-devices/#to-bulk-register-devices) in the Device management application.

The CSV file used in bulk registration should meet the requirements described in [Create a bulk device credentials request](https://{{< domain-c8y >}}/api/core/#operation/postBulkNewDeviceRequestCollectionResource) in the {{< openapi >}}. Moreover, it is required that the CSV file has an additional column AUTH_TYPE with value CERTIFICATES, and that the column CREDENTIALS is either not present or has an empty value.

**Single registration**

Single registration is not supported for devices which are going to use certificates for authentication.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
During device registration, the device user is created, which is necessary for device communication with the platform.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### JWT token retrieval {#jwt-token-retrieval}

> A device which is authenticated by certificates and retrieve token from {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform which can later be used to authenticate HTTP requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A device which is authenticated by certificates and retrieves tokens from the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform which can later be used to authenticate HTTP requests.
```

Reviewer 2: It seems that this is not a complete sentence. Something is missing here, at least a verb.

	POST /devicecontrol/deviceAccessToken
    Accept: application/json
    X-Ssl-Cert-Chain: -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- MIIDTzCCAjegAwIB...TpaISZIs= -----END CERTIFICATE

This call can be done by executing the following curl statement:

    curl -v -cert domain-cert.pem -key domain-private-key.pem \
       -H 'Accept: application/json' \
       -H 'X-Ssl-Cert-Chain:<cert-chain>' \
       -X POST \
       https://<{{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant domain>/devicecontrol/deviceAccessToken

> Replace `<cert-chain>` with the valid certificate chain to you when registering with {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace `<cert-chain>` with your valid certificate chain when registering with {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
```

> The same credentials used to access the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Web GUI can be used to execute the REST calls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same credentials used to access the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} Web UI can be used to execute the REST calls.
```

You will receive a response like that:

    HTTP/1.1 200 Success
    Content-Type: application/vnd.com.nsn.cumulocity.managedobject+json; charset=UTF-8; ver=0.9
    ...
    {
        "accessToken": "eyJhbGciOiJSUI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJktYTJmYy0x...S 04HPk3GQUd-fHyJ2oKSuetWFWpUSBPzJzl_73_3yauIlplHorlSoQ"
    }

A device token lifetime can be configured using tenant options with a category of `oauth.internal` and a key of `device-token.lifespan.seconds`.
The default value is 1 hour.
The minimum allowed value is 5 minutes.
Refer to the [Tenant API](https://{{< domain-c8y >}}/api/core/#tag/Tenant-API) in the {{< openapi >}} for more details.

> A device can fetch a new device token before the old one expires, if it request a JWT token after half of the token's lifetime has passed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A device can fetch a new device token before the old one expires, if it requests a JWT token after half of the token's lifetime has passed.
```

{{< c8y-admon-caution >}}

> A Only those devices can retrieve JWT token via mTLS protocol using this endpoint which are registered to use cert auth. Once certificate based mutual authentication is successful with valid certificate chain device will retrieve token. The mTLS protocol can be leveraged using device certificate and its key using this endpoint only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only devices which are registered to use cert auth can retrieve a JWT token via mTLS protocol using this endpoint. Once the certificate-based mutual authentication is successful with a valid certificate chain the device retrieves the token. The mTLS protocol can be leveraged using the device certificate and its key using this endpoint only.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-caution >}}

### mTLS example client {#mTLS-example-client}

The code of the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} mTLS example client implemented in Java, which connects to the platform using x.509 certificates, is available here: https://github.com/SoftwareAG/cumulocity-examples/tree/develop/mtls-client.

> Here are some configuration needed before calling device access token API:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following configuration is required before calling the device access token API:
```

    private static final String KEYSTORE_NAME = "";
	 private static final String KEYSTORE_PASSWORD = "";
	 private static final String KEYSTORE_FORMAT = "";
	 private static final String TRUSTSTORE_NAME = "";
	 private static final String TRUSTSTORE_PASSWORD = "";
	 private static final String TRUSTSTORE_FORMAT = "";
	 private static final String PLATFORM_URL = "";
	 private static final String X_SSL_CERT_CHAIN = "x-ssl-cert-chain";
	 private static final String DEVICE_ACCESS_TOKEN_PATH = "/devicecontrol/deviceAccessToken";
	 private static final String LOCAL_DEVICE_CHAIN = "";

> * KEYSTORE_NAME is the path to your keystore, which contains the private key and the chain of certificates, which the device will use to authenticate itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* KEYSTORE_NAME - The path to your keystore which contains the private key and the chain of certificates, which the device uses to authenticate itself.
```

> * KEYSTORE_PASSWORD is the password created for keystore to use its private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* KEYSTORE_PASSWORD - The password created for the keystore to use its private key.
```

> * KEYSTORE_FORMAT should be "JKS" or "PKCS12" depending on the file format. The path is provided by KEYSTORE_NAME.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* KEYSTORE_FORMAT - Either "JKS" or "PKCS12" depending on the file format. The path is provided by KEYSTORE_NAME.
```

> * TRUSTSTORE_NAME is the path to your truststore, which contains the certificate of the server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TRUSTSTORE_NAME - The path to your truststore which contains the certificate of the server.
```

> * TRUSTSTORE_PASSWORD is the password to access the truststore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TRUSTSTORE_PASSWORD - The password to access the truststore.
```

> * TRUSTSTORE_FORMAT should be "JKS" or "PKCS12" depending on the file format. The path is provided by TRUSTSTORE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TRUSTSTORE_FORMAT - Either "JKS" or "PKCS12" depending on the file format. The path is provided by TRUSTSTORE.
```

> * PLATFORM_URL should be platform URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* PLATFORM_URL - The URL of the platform.
```

> * DEVICE_ACCESS_TOKEN_PATH API endpoint should be responsible for mTLS protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* DEVICE_ACCESS_TOKEN_PATH API - The endpoint responsible for the mTLS protocol.
```

> * LOCAL_DEVICE_CHAIN should be whole chain in PEM format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* LOCAL_DEVICE_CHAIN - The whole chain in PEM format.
```

> After filling in this data, the example client will use the provided data to retrieve device access token to the specified platform using certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After filling in this data, the example client will use the provided data to retrieve the device access token to the specified platform using certificates.
```

> In general, the mTLS protocol Client uses the Java Secure Socket Extension, which is part of the Java Development Kit, to provide secure connections via SSL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, the mTLS protocol client uses the Java Secure Socket Extension, which is part of the Java Development Kit, to provide secure connections via SSL.
```

> JSSE provides the Java implementation of the SSL and TLS protocol, which can be configured by developers using its classes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JSSE provides the Java implementation of the SSL and TLS protocol which can be configured by developers using its classes.
```
